INTRO:

As we continue to rely on technology in our daily lives, the energy consumption
of data centers has become a significant concern. Data centers are responsible
for a large portion of global carbon emissions, and it is crucial that we take
action to reduce their environmental impact. Today, we will be discussing the
concept of carbon- and renewable-aware computing in the context of virtual energy
systems and software defined control to optimize carbon-efficiency. By
integrating this concept into a co-simulation framework, we can improve the way
we model and predict the behavior of physical systems and their interactions
with other systems.


BACKGROUND:

One approach to address virtual energy systems and software defined control was
made by Souza et al. with their "ecovisor". This ecovisor allows each
application to handle clean energy's unreliability in software based on its
specific requirements. A small-scale prototype - on the right - was created and
evaluated, showing that multiple applications can concurrently exercise their
virtual energy system in different ways to better optimize carbon-efficiency
based on their specific requirements.

[hier ein wenig mit der figure vom ecovisor arbeiten und die API schnittstelle
als hauptmerkmal für unser projekt erklären]

Mosaik is an open-source co-simulation framework that allows users to simulate
large, complex systems by combining multiple simulations of smaller, simpler
components. It enables the integration of various simulation models and allows
for the communication and synchronization of these models in a seamless and
efficient manner. Mosaik's importance for research lies in its ability to
simulate large and complex systems that would be difficult or infeasible to
model using a single simulation tool. It allows researchers to combine different
models to study the interactions and performance of the overall system. On the
right for example, a smart grid simulation demo can be seen that involves a
grid, households, and photovoltaic panels. These entities are represented by
spheres in the simulation and are connected according to the layout of the
scenario. The color of the spheres changes based on the current value of each
element.


APPROACH:

Now for the sake of the various mentioned benefits of simulations in research
environments, our approach is to integrate this Ecovisor into the Mosaik
co-simulation framework.

For this, we formed a list of requirements outlining the policy for our system
design. Since we are simulating the Ecovisor, a necessary constraint is to
retain full functionality of the original Ecovisor design. A simulator in
general first requires a mathematical model that is then executed. The execution
of that model is then called a simulation. Mosaik's interface defines exactly
what methods the simulator needs to implement to be properly integrated into its
ecosystem. So if we want other simulated entities to interact with our simulated
Ecovisor, we need to interface between the model and the Mosaik ecosystem. Now
what stands out in our simulation environment is that we want non simulated
entities to be able to communicate with our Ecovisor. If you remember, the
Ecovisor enables containerized applications to interface with it. So, we also
want to enable real containerized applications to interface with our -simulated-
Ecovisor.

Fulfilling these requirements, this is what our final design of the system
results in. Starting with the Mosaik ecosystem at the bottom, you can see the
heart of the system, our simulated Ecovisor. Because our implementation is very
much dependent on a specific battery type, the battery is directly integrated
into the Ecovisor. The same applies to the energy-grid which supplies the
Ecovisor with information about the current carbon intensity, the local
electrical grid currently holds. Photovoltaic input is supplied by an extra
module. The implementation here is not important to the Ecovisor. A simulated
consumer - or application - can seamlessly interface with the Ecovisor through
Mosaik's interface. For a real applications or consumers however, a couple of
extra steps are going to be necessary.

[hier deine API]

FUTURE WORK:

You may recognize this slide from our kickoff presentation where we discussed
our initial research question. As Philip already pointed out back then, the
integration of the Ecovisor into Mosaik can be a fully realized project on its
own for the scope of this module. However, now these points make up solid ideas
for future work with our Ecovisor simulator.

With our finished project we could now explore a distributed network of multiple
simulated geo-distributed Ecovisors. The geo-distributed aspect is especially
interesting for continuing the work from Philip for example. Because carbon
intensity is different in each region, depending on the amount of fossil fuels
utilized by each country, carbon-aware load shifting techniques can be greatly
applied to this ecovisor infrastructure and enable very valuable insights.
